.Open Questions and Answers on the Introduction
. Project in this class
I was wondering in this class we had to fully program our project, or if we were just going to be doing everything but programming?

I regret this but we only have 9 weeks, no machines, and no lab time:-(

Programming is optional.  At most I may ask you to show how you might code an interaction
diagram.

. From 2007
. 1 pp 14 -- UML1 &2
 what was the major change or difference between the first version of UML to UML2?

This took a couple of presentations by me and by a student
.See http://csci.csusb.edu/dick/papers/index.html#2005
. 1 pp 15 -- UML History
Is the difference from UML1 and UML2 basically scope?

I guess so.... UML2 has a lot more diagrams and can be used for
a lot more purposes in a project -- for example flow charting
and timing diagrams.

There are also some big revisions and refinements.

. 2 pp 19-21 -- Iterative and Evolutionary Development
In the UML development model the complexity of a system is given by the number of iterations or by the number of components?

When done the number of pieces will depend on the complexity of the
project.  

The number of iterations is more of a planning and guesstimating thing.
But you would be wise to plan for more iterations on a complex
project than on a simple one.   Each iteration is really a
simple project that adds complexity to the whole.  The other
thing is that early iterations should tell you to change your plans.

The development plan is a guess.... only the next iteration or so
is set in stone...


. 2 pp 022-023 -- How long is an iteration
When It comes to Iteration times, what are the major factors that decide 
how long the iterations will be for a project?

Experience and risk.  I would say that a project with many risks and
novel things will need lots of small iterations.

IN this class, quite arbitrarily, I've gone with the XP value: one
iteration = one week.

However in this class project we do not do a complete iteration because I do not require your to produce tested executable code.  This is because we are not scheduled any lab time or development systems.

. page 23 Time boxing
In a project using timeboxing, what happens when all requirements for a 
specific iteration cannot be completed in the given amount of time; since 
there are no requirements that can be completed in the given amount of 
time, is the time length for the iteration extended or does the old 
iteration end and a new one start from that point? pg. 23

The unmet requirement is moved to a future iteration.   A wise team
will try to understand why it was not met and adjust their plans for
the future: did they have too many requirements in this iteration?
if so they must adjust their model of how fast they can work.
Or, is there something evil in that requirement?  In this
case it may need some rethinking and scheduling.

. number pp 037-038 -- cs375 question - Development Case
Are there rules or a special format in which a development case must follow in order for it to be a development case?

Development Cases are a formal way of recording what parts of the UP/RUP
you plan to use.
I am not a fan of formal Development Cases.
Each organization will have it's own way of documenting them.
All the examples I've seen are tables like Table 2.1
(page 38).  I used this table as inspiration for the project work in this
class.

I'll be asking you in
.See ./w1.html
to choose the artifacts you will need to deliver to get your project
off the ground.  Notice -- you should think about what artifacts
are developed in an iteration before starting each iteration.
.Close Questions and Answers on the Introduction
