.Open Questions and answers on use cases -- use cases
. Scope Bounds the system under design
What does Larman mean when he says the scope bounds the system under design?

"Scope" is a technical term.  It names a kind of metaphorical boundary
around the system it applies to.  A Project's scope is what the project is
about.  If something is "out of scope" we don't waste time on it.  In
requirements scope limits or bounds what we have to worry about.  If
something is "in scope" we have to analyse and design for it.  If it
is out of scope, we don't.


. Why so little documentation
Why is it that so little of documentation is necessary for the inception / use cases? Shouldn't there be more documentation to better identify its uses more throughly to cut through confusion and reveal a clearer goal?

Personally I find the thought of preparing a 4 or 5 page fully dressed
use case more than enough documentation to get a project started.

. Chapter 6 page 65 No external Primary actors
Why does the author suggest we should be suspicious if no primary actors are external computer systems?

I can't find this suggestion.... 

I think that you should be suspicious of any use case where the primary actor
is inside the system you are designing.   Use case serve real users!


. Chapter 6 page 66 offstage actors
The book details offstage actors. Isn't this more of a higher detail plan?
Isn't this type of detail a little to much for this step of the process?

No!  

Back in the 1960's and 70's we taked a lot about avoiding detail at
the start of projects and `refining` later.

Trouble is that details can kill a project -- In particular an off stage actor like
the government can really make a project a lot more interesting without
doing any thing in the final system.

In the $UP you take a small part of the software and do detailed analysis and
design on it.  You work out all the details on a small number of requirements.
Rather than (as in the past) leaving all the details until later.

. Actors and user roles
Should all actors be identified? Can I just identify a specific person or group who will play the role of each actor?

You should at least name the actors and if necesary give same more 
information -- if it is interesting.  

I dread the use case diagram with the actor "User" and use case "login".
It tells me nothing about the system, and everything about the 
thoughtlessness of the person who drew the diagram.

In fact,
I like to be very precise and even give a personal name to my primary actors.  For
detailed interaction design I spell out as much as I can about them:
age, gender, status, skills, habits, ....  These
.Key personas
improve the usability of the system by matching the behavior to the particular
users that matter..

. What is the difference between actors and user roles? 
Not much.  A person can play many roles in different use cases... and
each time may appear as a different "actor".... I think.

. Chapter 6.4 page 66 -- limit on the number of use cases
Motivation is enticing! However, when presenting use cases to emphasize and define goals and perspectives, is there a limitation of the number of use cases required to fulfill the requirements of the case or project?

No. A big project has many use cases.  A small project has one simple use
case.

Use cases are a good indicator of the effort needed to develop a project.

. Chapter 6 page 77
Is it better to record non-functional requirements with the use case in the beginning and then move them to special requirements later, or to list them in the special requirements from the beginning?

I don't know.   I've gone both ways.   Try this: start with a non-functional
requirement attached to a use case.... and when it appears elsewhere
factor it out into a "supplementary spec" in another artifact and link
the two together.

Note: there is a lot to be said for using hyperlinks in your documents.

. Chapter 6.16 pages 87-89 Use Case Tests
For application requirements analysis, the boss, EBP, and Size tests are enumerated. Is there any reason as to why a System Test is not considered a use-case test? Shouldn't that be considered an important test to insure a good product? It only seems logical to me!

OK.  The book is confusing.  It means "How to spot a good use case".  It is
not talking about "How to test the system".  The questions are about
how to reject bad use cases before you try to code them.

. Use cases and functionality
Do the use cases define all the functionality within the scope of the system and nothing outside the scope?

Yes.
. Chapter 4/6 pp 61 -- Use Cases
Who is Ben Stien?

A well known misprint: `Ben Stein`...  I've never heard of him before,
but agree with the philosphy: decide what you want before trying to get it!
.See 
http://thinkexist.com/quotation/the_indispensable_first_step_to_getting_the/12868.html

. Chapter 6 pp 61-67 -- Requirements and Formats
This chapter mentions the Supplementary Specification, Glossary, Vision, 
and Business Rules requirements but doesn't define them, how are they used?

We will cover these later in the book/course.

. Chapter 6 pp 61-67 -- Requirements and Formats
How should it be decided which use case format to use?
(Brief, Casual, Fully Dressed)

Start simple.... and elaborate as the project proceeds.


. Ch 6 pp 061-089 -- Use Case text vs diagram
I thought that use cases were primarily a VISUAL representation of
a certain system scenario.  However, now in the text, it seems that they
are mostly just written "stories".  Is one better than the other, or
should we just use both types in tandem?

One of the commonest errors made by people new to use cases is think
that they are a diagram.  A use case is not a diagram.  A project
has a diagram that shows many use cases as bubbles.

Fact:  the scenarios/text forms provide the real benefit
for designing software.  The diagram is a visual aid and index.
It summarizes all the use cases.
. Ch 6 pp 061-089 -- Use Case text vs diagram
Which should we use text or diagram?

Both ultimately.  Start with the simple text formats, refine
some in detail.... and draw a diagram when you want to
summarize the whole picture.

Beware drawing a diagram too early.  They help most when you have many
actors and many cases and you need to see how they fit together: who
does what.
. Chapter 3 pp 61-89 -- Use Cases
Can Use Cases be use to demonstrate why a system shouldn't be design?

I don't see why not... but I've never heard of this happening.

. Chapter 6 pp 61-89 -- Use cases
With an almost infinite number of things that can go wrong with a system,
how do you determine what alternate flows should and shouldn't be included
in the use case?

Don't forget that use cases grow as the project proceeds.  New
alternatives are always being added.  So the question is which alternatives
do you explore first.  I guess the answer is -- start with the riskiest
and most interesting ones.

One nice thing about fully dressed use cases is that you can write
a single alternative flow that can occur in many steps in the use case.
An example would be
.As_is 		*z. if power is cut, .....
The asterisk means that the same action is carried out what ever
step is in progress.  Similarly you can write
.As_is 		3-15a. If user does not respond in 10 minutes, ...
as an action to be taken in steps 3 through to 15 if the user times out.

. Chapter 6 pp 61-89 -- Nonfunctional Requirements
Since use cases focus on developing functional requirements, and 
nonfunctional requirements are only discovered offhand during that process,
is there a formal method for developing nonfunctional requirements (beyond
"I think the program should be fast")?

I suppose you could list all the different types of non-functional
types and run through the list with your stakeholders -- how fast
must this respond? How valuable will it be to recover data lost
in an earthquake? ...  But in practice if you keep your ears and eyes
open, critical ones are obvious as you talk with the stakeholders
and think about the system.

. Chapter 6.2 pp 63 -- Use Case
Have you ever worked on a project or known of a project that didn't use, 
use cases?

All of them prior to 2001.

. Chapter 6 pp 65 -- Use Cases vs. Functional Requirements
Explain in better detail the differences between a Use Case and a 
Functional Requirement?

A Use Case is one way to express a functional requirement.  Currently
most people think that it is best practice for expressing and organizing
requirements.
. Chapter 6 pp 65 -- Use Case Requirements
The books says, "Use cases are indeed requirements (although not all 
requirements)." How do you know which requirements are important?

Good question.  Best practice answer: ask the stakeholders.

One cunning idea is to ask them to allocate hypothetical $100 to
each one to indicate the relative importance.


. Chapter 6 pp 67-68 -- Conflicts between stakeholder requirements
What if there is a conflict with a stakeholders interest, either with 
another stakeholder, existing technology, etc?  How do you resolve it?

This topic deserves a book there are so many ramifications -- is the
conflict personalities, business politics, people loosing power,
different views, a legitimate trade off, ...

I would get the the conflict clarified and get the opposing people
to meet in a neutral area.... Then, if that fails, talk to their
bosses...

This is one reason why companies hire in special facilitators and 
consultants
to develop the requirements with them.

This is really a
.See ./cs372/
topic... I most write more on it!


. Chapter 6 pp 76 -- Use Case
In the middle of the page 76, it shows a scenario of Paying by Credit.  The
scenario states that system sends an authorization request to an external
service system.  However, in class you said that the use case should not 
contain internal operations that the user would not know about.  So is this
scenario different?

Key point -- the external agency is external to our system and so must
be mentioned.  In fact, I hope the person understands that the money
is coming out of the bank that owns the credit card!

. Chapter 6 pp 85 -- Primary Actor
In the POS example the author states that the cashier is the primary actor
because he/she initiates the action of the system. There is mention of the
customer self service check outs that are now widely used. In this case is
the customer the primary actor and is this system considered a separate use
case or a modified version of the first since most of the actions remain 
the same?

Interesting question.  I think the smart move would be to create
an included use case that is shared between the two concrete ones.
This technique is later in the book and course.
. Chapter 4 pp 50 -- Business Case
I was constructing a Vision and Business Case for the project, when I
realized I didn't know much about what goes into the creation of a Business
Case. Can you elaborate?

In this course we will keep it simple -- explain in business terms what
it costs and why it is worth doing anyway.
The Business Case explains why
it is good for the enterprise to develop the software under design.  This
often means: increasing the bottom line.

Some enterprises have a complicated report format that is used
to state the Business Case. Review
.See http://csci.csusb.edu/dick/cs372/c2.html#The%20Business%20Case
to see the information that is often required.


.  pp  -- What is the significance of use cases?

They are probably the most important technique, so far invented,
for documenting what your software
needs to do. They are a tool that places what the system must do
in the context of the user needs.  They also help you organize the
design and code.

. Chapter 6 pp 61-65 -- Use Cases
When writing use cases for large projects is it necessary to write a use
case for every scenario, or would it be sufficient to write use cases for
the most complex scenarios and create use case diagrams for all.

Scenarios are parts of use cases -- one use case has many scenarios.
Each scenario should belong to at least one use case.

So to rephrase the question:

. Must I write scenarios for every use case?

Answer: not yet.

. Can I do just the most complex use cases first?

Answer: Probably -- the trick is to pick the use cases that will have the
biggest impact on the design of the software.  Start with some important
use case that involves many ideas from the user's domain -- even if
it only has one simple scenario.

As an example: suppose you know that your software has to solve a
hard problem then you should work out a simple use case that sets up
a problem and lets you test the solution...

Another example: you are using a novel protocol -- focus on
use cases that need the protocol.

Example: the problem involves a lot of entities/tables in a data base --
pick use cases that need data from many of these...

. What happens if I do the wrong use cases first?

You may find that of software needs a big rewrite and your
design a big rethink late in the project.

. Chapter 4 pp 061-089 -- Use Cases
Are use cases a complete collection of scenarios, or some kind of a
representative collection of scenarios?

They start out as being a subset and grow into completeness as the project
proceeds.

The worst case is discovering a scenario at the end of the project
that can not be handled by the code you have got running.  So we
search out scenarios that stretch our architecture early in the project.
. Chapter 6 pp 62-64 -- Use Case Actors
Isn't the Fully Dressed format for use cases too complex, I thought it was
supposed to be simple(pg65)? or Should we be using all of these formats to
be completely thorough in our analysis.

Don't write fully dressed cases for every use case -- just the really
important ones.  Importance varies as the project proceeds.  Initially
you need the 10% that involve risk and define the architecture.  Later
you only "fully dress" a use case just before you start to implement
it.

Use cases go through 5 stages: name, brief, casual, fully-dressed,
implemented.

The complexity of a fully dressed use case reflects the complexity
that the software has to handle.  Ignore it and watch your software
fail.


Use cases go through 5 stages: name, brief, casual, fully-dressed,
implemented.

. Chapter 6 pp 64 -- Use Cases and Use Case Model
How do you determine when to use the Use Case and the Use Case Model?

Write text to clarify one use case.

Use the diagram to clarify many use cases.

I draw a fast use case diagram first in pencil/chalk and use it as
a visual list of names.   Then I describe each use case in more detail.

But you can often pick one critical use case and write it first and
delay the diagram until you have to present the material or when
you start to get lost in all the different use cases.

The diagram + text makes up the "use case model".  The diagram is
optional (but nice).  The text: name, brief, casual, ... is essential.


. Chapter 6 pp 66-67 -- Use Case Formats
Out of the three common use case formats (brief, casual, and fully
dressed). Which is the one that is the most effective?

Three different tools for three different purposes:  like three different
wrenches or screw drivers.   Or three different kitchen knives.

Pick the right one for the job in hand.  You need brief descriptions
to get started and fully dressed before you code.

Choose the tool that gives you most information.

. Chapter 6 pp 66-67 -- use cases
Can a use case still work if you mix up the primary actor and the
supporting actor? Meaning will it still work if i unknowingly put the
primary actor in the supporting actor spot and vise versa?

It will certainly help you document what is happening.  The real catch
is that you'll describe a solution that is fitted to the wrong person.
This won't make your users very happy!

Start by selecting a primary actor..... and then ask what they might
want to do.
. Chapter 6 pp 66 -- Actors / Associations
There are three types of actors.  If two actors interact can they be
connected to each other.

NO!

Common mistake: connecting actors that communicate or connecting bubbles
that share data -- DON'T!

There is one valid (and IMHO useful) connection between actors:
generalization.
Like this:
 Student ----|> Person
which says that a Student does everything that a Person does.

. Chapter 6 pp 66 -- Actors / Associations
Also, in a use case diagram what is the difference between associations
drawn with arrows and associations drawn with just lines.

Not much.  The arrow comes from the primary actor.


. Chapter 6 pp 78,79 -- Use case format

The book says that there isn't one best format for use cases, on projects
in the real world which format is used more, the one-column style or the
two-column style?

I don't have any evidence which formats you'll meet in the real world.
Luckily it is easy to shift to fit the company you work for.

Personally, I use the one column format because it is simpler to write.
My guess is that you'll many others doing this as well.


. Chapter 6 pp 88 -- EBP Test
Can you give a better description of an EBP Test than the books
description?

Not really:  it implies that a use case should be valuable and to some
extent
independent of other use cases(a transaction).  I'm not sure about the
accuracy of the other criteria (response to an event, in one place,
at one time, ...).

Perhaps it can give you an image -- the user reaches for the computer and
gets something done and then stops, and the enterprise profits as a result.


. Ch 6 pp 66-72 -- Use Case Formats
When will we use each of the three use case formats?  When will we need to
use a fully dressed use case?

In a real project you start out elaboration with only 10% of the use cases
in fully-dressed format... but end up transition with nearly all of them
fully documented.

You follow the rule: select use cases that shine a light on the
problems and solutions for refinement.

Refinement::usecases=`supplying more details, moving from name to brief
format, to casual format, and finally fully-dressed format`, refinement
may lead to rethinking and correcting mistakes or out-of-date information.

In this class:  Today I'd like us to have one fully-dressed use-case to
work with but I don't plan to remove points if everyone is a bit casual.


. Ch 6 pp 72 -- use cases customization
What customization is needed for Different business?

It depends on whether there is a common core of useful things that are 
needed
across all the businesses you are considering.

You can make customization easier in use cases by using the $essential
style -- omitting all mention of hardware and user interface details.

. Ch 6 pp 90 -- Use case diagrams
Figure 6.3 seems to violate use case rules(IE. reads like a flow chart, 
does to many things),why is this acceptable?

What is missing are the control flows that specifies the sequence of use 
cases.
If they were shown you would have a non-standard flowchart.

Use case shouldn't have a sequence... a set of independently scheduled
things that the user needs to do: at the time and place of the user's
desire.  If you become aware of some kind of constraint -- example
user must "login" before "editing a file" then your use cases are
two small -- steps in a scenario.

In other words:  sequences should be in the use case scenarios, not
between the use cases themselves.   Exception: pre and post conditions in
a fully dressed format
can express a sequence.  Not shown in the use case diagram.

. Ch 6 pp 80 -- Essential Style Writing
When should essential style writing be used?

When ever possible!  Delay physical details until cast in stone.  In any
case better expressed in code or as configuration files (eg. CSS).

essential::=`describing things without mentioning user interface or other 
physical details`.

Example: don't use the words "click", "button", "page", "data base", ...
.Close Questions and answers on use cases -- use cases
