.Open Exercises for class 06
 List the artifacts that are developed during inception and indicate their degree of completeness.
 What three goals are normally tackled during elaboration?
 What artifacts are started during elaboration?
 What is a domain model?
 Here are the two basic symbols used in a simple domain model, what do they mean?
.Image 06domain.gif [C in a Box and A on a line]

 Give 2 examples of the kinds of things that do not appear in a domain model.
 What is the relation between domain models and design class diagrams.
 List half-a-dozen types of conceptual classes.
 What is a description class and why are they useful?
 When should you show an association in a domain model?
 What is a multiplicity?  Give 4 examples.
 Here is a text version of some multiplicities: Section(*)-----(1)Teacher(*)-----(1)Department.
Explain what they are saying.
 List half-a-dozen categories of association.
.Open Practice domain modeling. 
.Open CSUSB Inventory Control
Suppose that you have to develop the CSUSB Inventory program for Facilities
Services. This software tracks all the equipment and furniture on campus. 
It enables us to find where things have gone to. Each thing is in one place
and places can have any number of things. CSUSB Inventory is used when we 
move, instal, replace, repair, and remove things from service.  It helps us
find things and put them in  the right place.  Places include classrooms 
and stores.

List the nouns in the above.

Draw a domain model.
.Close CSUSB Inventory Control
.Open Depot Stock Control Software
. Instructions
  Draw a domain model to fit the following description in the space at the bottom of this sheet.  

Hint: use a pencil  and an eraser. Or a black/white board with chalk.  Draw incomplete
boxes.

. Vision -- Depot Stock Control Software
Software runs in a depot that ships stocks requested by orders.  It helps
the depot manager manage stock levels and outstanding orders.
. Use Case UC1 Manager reviews unfulfilled orders
The manager at a depot logs in and sees a list of the sales orders that his depot has not yet fulfilled.
.Open Exercise 1
Your diagram should show the following information (and not much else!).
. Classes
 Depot, Product, Stock, Customer, Sales Order, Sales Item
. Associations
 A Depot holds Stocks.
 Products are stocked as Stocks. 
 A Depot has Customers. 
 A Customer can have Sales Orders. 
 A Sales Order has Sales Items.
 A Stock can be ordered as a Sales Item
. Multiplicities
 Each Stock has precisely one Product and is held at one Depot.
 Each Customer is served by only one depot.
 Each Sales Item is on one Sales Order and is for one Stock.
.Close Exercise 1
. Answer 1 -- With no association names
.See ./06xans.png
.Open Exercise 2
See this
.See ./07x1.png
and add these
. Attributes
 Depot: Id and address, 
 Customer: name and address,
 Sales order: dateOrdered, dueDate,
 Sales Item:  price and quantity, 
 Product: description and units.
.Close

. Answer 2 -- Domain Model with attributes
.See ./07x1ans.gif
.Close Exercise 2
.Close Depot Stock Control Software
.Close Exercises for class 06
