.Open Exercises in class 07
 What is the syntax for writing an attribute in an UML class?
Show how you would say that a `Person` (class) has a public attribute `age`
which is a number and starts at zero.
Which parts do you omit in a typical rough domain model?
 Explain the following Domain Model:

.Image 07domain.gif [Boxes C and B connected by A ...]

 Draw a diagram that shows that a class `Person` has a unique associated `Address`. Redraw
this to show that a Person has an attribute `address` that has type `string`.
 What is a derived attribute? How do you show a derived attribute?  Give an example. 
 Give a guideline for choosing between an attribute and an association in a domain model.
 In which UP phase do you start a domain model, and how often do you
expect to update it?

 Here are two types of diagram, use case and domain model. What is A, B, C, X, Y?
What is the relation between X and Y?

.Image 07diagram.gif [Box A connected to box B by line C plus Stickman X connected to oval Y] 
 
.Open Adding Attributes to a Domain Model
. Scope -- SuperMartStockControl
. Vision
To be able to keep track of the stocks of products held
on different shelves in the SuperMart Store.
.Open Use Cases
 Stock control clerk gets stock levels for a given product.
 Stock man moves stock from one shelf to another.
 Manager prints an inventory.
 Purchasing manager orders new stocks.
 ...
.Close Use Cases
. Initial Domain Model
.Image 07x.gif Each Stock is on one shelf and for one Product
. Missing Facts
 Each product has a text description and a restockLevel.
 Each shelf has a code position in the store -- the coding is a 6 character string.
 Each stock has a price and a number of items of the product.
 We also need to keep track of how much a product costs.
. Copy and Add Attributes -- KISS
Include all attributes -- even value objects and possible foreign keys.
.Close Adding Attributes to a Domain Model

 Domain models are models
of real kickable objects.... 
We are working on an inventory program describing stuff at CSUSB.  Can you
recall ior reconstruct the domain model from last time?  Can we add any attributes to it.
If time -- draw a shared domain model on the board.

. Exercise -- Inventory for CSU
. Exercise -- Grading
.Close Exercises in class 07
