.Open Questions and Answers on GRASP
. MVC Architecture
In the MVC architecture, which one of the 3 is compatible or could be carried over to the other functions in your system? Does view only apply to what the user sees?

THe idea of MVC is that each function as seen be the user is spread out over all three
types of classes.  Any function has a View, a designated controller, and one or more
domain classes.

Internally I think that real systems need a Technical Services layer underneath the Model
of MVC.  There are some things a software system must do (highly technical things) that are
not what the user wishes to see(V), control(C), or understand(M).

. Chapter 17 pages 273 -- What is the Gang-of-Four
Four guys who wrote this classic book 
.See http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0201633612
.See http://libcat.lib.csusb.edu/record=b1526724
describing some clever
object-oriented ways of tackling some well known problems.
See
.See ./patterns.html#The_Gang_of_Four
for their names....  We will look at several their patterns later
in this class.

. What does GRASP do?
It guides you to better designs.

. Applying GRASP to Object Design.
There are nine GRASP patterns, which one is most important patterns? which
one is the most difficult to understand? 

The list in the front cover puts the ones used most often first.  They are all important
for some problems.

I think that Polymorphism is the one that people who don't `get` objects have the most problem
with.  But Coupling and Cohesion are a little too abstract to understand -- you have to have
worked for a month or two inside a humongous design to really get a feel for these ideas.


. Chapter 17 pages 271-319  -- New Patterns
How can you not have a new pattern?  If you have a pattern that evolves into a different pattern, the different pattern is a new pattern.

Because a pattern is deduced from pre-existing examples.  If there
are no examples then it is not a pattern.  And Patterns tend not to evolve.
When documented and published they tend to distort reality to fit.  SO they
don't change once promulgated.

. Chapter 17 pages 271-379 -- GRASP -- object sizes
What is the ideal size of an object, I think i have a tendency to make them
too large but when they are too small it seems like a waste of time and code.

This is a common mistake made people who a new to object-oriented design.
We have some names for these large low cohesion classes: "The God Class",
"A Mudball class".

Do this and your code will be unmaintainable very quickly.

Make your self some templates so you can make the code for a class quickly.

. Chapter 17 How big does object get before you break it up?
It depends on the cohesion. In theory you might have hundreds of
operations that an object can do!  Similarly it can encapsulate a lot of
data.

It is not a matter of size but whether things belong together, in some
sense or other:  do all the methods need the same data?  Is all the
data needed by several methods/operations?

. Which GRASP is most popular
Information Expert.  First noticed, most often needed, and few will
argue against it.

. Chapter 17 pages 277 -- Is GRASP a template to master OOD?
Not a template.  More a set of guidelines.
Yes.... a set of guidelines that you can use to do better designs.


. Chapter 17 pages 277-319 -- GRASP as a cycle
Do you cycle
through all of these patterns, and see which best fits with what you're 
trying to do/design?

You shouldn't have to cycle through either the $GRASP or the $GoF patterns.
You need to describe the current problem in terms of responsibilities
and let that remind you of a suitable pattern:
.Set
	So what happens when the user clicks that button?
	A building is made of parts, where do the parts come from?
	Which object should calculate the Value Added Tax?
	I'm not sure which design is best....
.Close.Set

By the way -- it is quite OK to come with the designs intuitively
and then label them "Controller", "Creator", "Expert", ...


. Chapter 17 pages 291 -- Popular GRASP Patterns
What seems to be the most popular GRASP pattern that everybody seems to use?

Larman has listed them in decreasing frequency of use and popularity.
But they are in the list because they are in use in many projects already.

.Key Information Expert
is probably used more often than any other -- even by poeple who
don't know it by name.   The close runner up is
.Key Creator
because most scenarios will lead to creating new objects and we
have to choose where this creating/construction is invoked.

Low 
.Key coupling
and high 
.Key cohesion
are the two of the oldest patterns.  But they
are less useful because they are tools for evaluating a design rather than
coming up with one.

.Key Controller
is very common but a bit controversial.

. Chapter 17 pages 277-319 -- GRASP as a learning Aid
The book talks about GRASP as a learning aid.  Is this just to get us 
thinking about the ways we can design systems, or should we try to design 
our systems after these patterns?

I hope it can be more than a learning aid.  I think they will
guide you to good solutions -- even if used silently.

To be useful to a team,
however, the $GRASP patterns have to be a shared language.  At this
time I don't know what the odds are of this happening.  For example
I can see a tom of ASP and .js files on the WWW so I know that
a lot of teams use these languages/technologies.  However $GRASP
doesn't leave such obvious traces to a user.

I did find over 1,000 pages referring to "Larman GRASP" but not much recent
activity on usenet/google groups.   I figure that quite a few
current grads are likely to "talk GRASP".

Hmmmm this would be an interesting bit of research for a senior or
graduate student: what patterns are actually used in practice.


. Chapter 17 -- GRASP 
When was GRASP invented? and have you seen it in use on projects created on CSUSB's campus?

GRASP dates back to the first edition of the text book -- late 1990s I guess.

What tends to happen is that people use it without making any fuss when they
are doing OO design.  The 9 patterns do no more than name the way most
good designers thought.  This means I can use them to teach good OO design.
However you don't see students and staff taking the time and trouble to note
that the allocated a responsibility using Information Expert, or
choose a session controller.... it is just obvious....   

On camus there is a lot of non-OO work being done.  A lot of simple scripting
at the high level.   But even here some of the priciples still apply.  Low
coupling is still good, and high cohesion is still good.

I do see student work that is not well designed. 
One thing I have seen too much of in student projects is having SQL scattered all over
the code rather than hidden in a Technical Services class....  These are students
who don't do CS375, I'm glad to say.
. Chapter 17 pages 1-300 -- General Project Question
If an application returns messages/events back to the user, but not necessarily through the application itself, how is that referenced?

It will depend on the platform you are using.  Once upon a time we tweeaked the
loudspeaker to generate tomes.... nowadays you send a message to an object in the GUI
interface, I guess.

Time to research the particular platform:  hit the books and google.
. Chapter 17 pages ppp-ppp -- Expert GRASP Pattern
Can you explain the Expert GRASP pattern?

.Key Information Expert
Your system has to do something -- which part should be responsible? Answer the
part that has the data (or can find the data) that is needed to carry out the task.

The alternative: mudball designs and the kind of code that your colleagues will
make fun of and hate you for.

Problem:  when there are several possible experts...  (which may, perhaps, hint
at lack of cohesion?).

. Chapter 18 pages 302-303 -- Controllers
System operations are the major input events upon a system and controllers are objects responsible for handling systems operations. Since the system operations and controller are in different layers, how do we assign proper responsibilities?

Controllers are classes and so are inside packages/layers. System operations are
messages and flow between classes and so can cross layer boundaries.
. Chapter 18 pages 320-362 -- High Coupling
How might it be observed that a project is suffering from High Coupling and
if the level of coupling is tolerable?

When the team is scared to change some parts of the software because it might break the system
then you probably have too much coupling.

When any change you make involves a dozen classes being modified then you have too much coupling.
However -- some changes -- called "cross-cutting concerns" do effect almost every part of
a piece of software even if the coupling is low enough.  It take some special design techniques
to handle these aspects that effect everything (like security, persistence, language, ...).

. When to start coding
As soon as possible.  The first iteration in elaboration should test code
that exercises critical parts of the design, and exorcises some risks.

Note: in this class project is running very slowly, like a slowed down
movie.  I haven't got lab time for you to implement the designs:-(
However -- I'd love to see a project group demo some code....

. Chapter 17 pages 271-319 -- GRASP
All of these diagrams are nice, but when do we get to code?!

I coded up the Dice game in week 1.  Diagrams on page 10 and code
.See ./DiceGame.cpp
.See ./Die.cpp
.See ./testDiceGame.cpp
.See ./testDie.cpp

Here is the code for last class's quiz:
.See ./SalesItem.java
.See ./SalesOrder.java
.See ./Stock.java
Enjoy!

There is some code coming the book.  Several pages of it. 

You can start coding your project
any time you've got an interaction design.   I invite all project teams to
write code to
test their design classes and interaction diagrams by coding and demoing them.
I've laid down this challenge each year... and nobody wants to do it:-(

If we get time... and people pick an interaction I'll do some test driven 
C++ coding in class.  Should be fun.  Do the design right, and if you know
the languages -- coding is easy.  It also helps if you have some 
blank "template" files like
.See ./testName.cpp
.See ./class.cpp
.See ./function.cpp
.See ./attribute.cpp
ready to go.

If we had a unit of lab added to thhis class (2 hours) then I'd be
expecting you to code something from about week 3 onward.  It is
however the easy part of the unified process -- given that you made sure
you were competent in the Inception phase.

. Chapter 12 pages 271-319 -- LRG
What is LRG(low representation gap)?

This is when the internal structure of the software closely reflects
the structure of the doamin that the software is designed to fit.
. Chapter 17.4 pages 277 -- GRASP
Would you say mastering GRASP is needed before a company would even consider your resume?

No.  $GRASP has been out for about 5 years so management and hirers
haven't heard of it yet.

But they will have heard of `patterns` and the more complex and
technical "Gang of Four" patterns ($GoF).

. Chapter 17 pages 277 -- The Name Grasp
For the most part the chapter was understandable, but I keep coming back to one question, Is GRASP an acronym for something?

Yes.  Click here: $GRASP

. Chapter 17 pages 278-279 -- GRASP Patterns
Is the Pattern Name a single problem in which there needs to have a function to fulfill the void?

Not often.  It tends to be a generic and popular name for a way to resolve a number
of conflicting forces -- a family of simialr problems.

. Chapter 17 pages ppp-ppp -- GRASP Pattern Association?
Are different GRASP patterns more prevalent in different phases of the UP, or are all patterns considered throughout the entire process?

GRASP is used to guide design.  Design starts in the very first iteration and may occur
in the last.... See the pictures linked at end of
,See ./02.html

. Chapter 17 pages 280 -- GRASP patterns
Since UMl is a visual language for specifying and constructing objects related to software.
Are GRASP patterns or principles considered a subset of UML? 

No.  The supplement it.  UML can be used in many ways.  GRASP provides
guidance on OOAD, not the UML.

. Chapter 17 pages 282-315 -- GRASP patterns
Are the 9 GRASP patterns, namely, Information Expert, Creator, Controller, Low Coupling, High Cohesion, Polymorphism, Pure Fabrication, Indirection, and Protected Variations mandatory while designing objects with responsibilities in a project? And, should they be used in a particular order?

Use them in the order listed.  Try each in turn until one fits.... 

However, sometimes
you end up with a tradeoff between alternative good things to do.  Two
competing patterns.... and that is when this approach becomes interesting.

In other words this is not a rigid program or procedure that does the
thinking for you.  GRASP is a set of guidelines about what you need to
think about when doing design.

. Chapter 17 pages 281-282 -- Creator -- Who creates on object
On page 281, Larman asks about who should create objects.  He quickly mentions how a container should create thing that are contained.  Could you explain this a little more in detail, please?  

As a program runs, objects are constructed.  They are constructed by the pieces of the software.
These can be the main program in a simple CS201/202/330 type program.  But in a complex
or realistic piece of software objects construct other objects -- a lot!  So the
question is: which object constructs this one?  Who calls the constructor?  Where
to put this code:
.As_is 		General * handle = new Constructor(data);

Larman suggests that we look in (1) the existing design, and (2) in the domain model
to find a class that is already tied to the type of object we want to make.  And one tie
is that of containing it.... the black diamond of the UML: <*>------ that
indicates who has life and death control over objects of a class.

Thus:  perhaps, in my Depot, and Stocks, .... situation, Creator would lead you to
make the Depot object construct the Stocks held in the depot.  A Sales Order
might construct the Sales Items on it, etc.

Note:  Larman is not refering to "containers" in the CSCI330 sense.  These are vital
tools that are given to us to use, in practice, and so don't get modelled.  Larman
is looking for real obects, or at worst, already invented software objects.

. Chapter 17.10 pages 292 -- Creator
Are there any tips or tricks you have learned to determine the best creator?

I don't have any personal tricks or tips.  Just follow the examples
and thoughts in the book.


. Is a Controller in GRASP part of the system or an actor
A controller is part of the system. It is not an external actor.  The
external actors may have special user interface classes and then a
controller and so the controller is a kind of mask for the real user.
Controllers are how the user appears to the domain layer classes.


. Chapter 17 pages ppp-ppp -- grasp controller
can you explain the  controller from the grasp principles?

A controller object  is sent events by the user interface (it asks to be notified, typically)
and then passes them on to other controllers (sometimes) or one or more effected domain
objects.

. Chapter 17 pages 307 -- controller objects
can you explain more about how control objects are use case handlers 

To be precise, some Controllers are associated with particular use cases.  They
understand the sequence of events in the scenario and what to do at each step.
As the events occur, the User Interface passes the messages to the use case controller
(if the use case is recognisable).  If the type of event does not determine the
use case (and there are several possible one running....) perhaps you need
a facade controller that figures out which handler to call.


. Why are bloated controllers bad -- why shouldn't they do all the work?
Because the details of the work will change while the control sequence
is likely to stay the same... so separating the details makes it easier to
change the software. The effects of new requirements are localized.

In any case -- it is easier to work with a 100 line class than a 1000
line class.
. Chapter  pages 271-319 -- Coupling
Can you give an example of when high coupling is actually desirable/tolerable?

not without a lot of thought inventing a deliberately bad design.  I'll  see what I can
do...

. Chapter 17 pages 299 -- Low Coupling
What does he mean when he says "Assign a responsibility so that coupling remains low."  

So that different parts of the software do not depend on each other.  So that
changes in one part do not force other parts to change as well.  

To put it another way there is a certain amount of wiggle room between the
different pieces of the solution.

Here is an example of high coupling.  In my Microsoft 2K Pro lap top
at home, sometimes when it comes out of hibernate mode it has the size of the
desktop wrong -- twice as big as the screen or half as big.  Not the wallpaper,
oddly, but where the icons are put and the size of the pixels used to draw them.
Further this seems to happen if I enter hibernate mode when the model is active.

I don't understand how they can produce code where the modem and the desktop
size are coupled together.

And do not get me talking about the way "standby" mode fails on this machine.

. Chapter 17 pages 290 -- Low cohesion.
On page 290, Larman says that giving MonopolyGame too much to do--as opposed to delegating responsibilities--is, well, bad.  Is there technical reasoning behind this, or is it more for readability?

It is more than reasoning and readability.  
It is bad experiences with trying to modify "mudball" and "God" classes.  When
you've got a large loose class you can't find out where things are done
and so it takes time to fix it.  And often fixing one thing
breaks something else.

. Chapter 17 pages 299 - Coupling between or inside layers
In good practice , you should have low coupling but division between all 
different layers of your code for example, ui,domain,system?

Yes -- the coupling within a package should be higher than the
coupling between packages.  In other words each package tends
to be a coherent collection of classes.

However, certain couplings are needed to make the system work -- for
example UI calling controllers in the domain, and the domain model calling
the data base technical classes.

. Chapter 17 pages 271-319 -- GRASP Is it ever a good idea to use low-cohesion classes?

Only if there is a really good other reason.   I can't think of one.... In this
class don't do it without a written excuse from me:-)

. Cohesion on Wikipedia
.See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cohesion_(computer_science)

. Chapter 17 pages 314-318 -- Cohesion
I had some trouble with cohesion, can you clarify it some more?
See below.

. Chapter 17 pages 314-317 -- High or Low Cohesion
Should a design goal be low cohesion or high cohesion?

High. 

. Chapter 17 pages 271-319 -- GRASP cohesion
Is it always best to create a model with high cohesion?

Yes.  It's been a good idea since it was first suggested back in the
70's.

. Do I think that high cohesion is advantageous
YES.  Difficult but worthwhile.

. Can you explain more detail about the levels of cohesion?
I learned about these back in the 1970s and so I could probably remember them, but
the fact is that these old levels are not important in this class.
Since then people researching software engineering have developed formulae and tools that
measure cohesion to the second decimal place.....  but again this is more precision than we need.
I am skeptical about trying to put a scale on cohesion (and coupling).  
I see cohesion as the kind of thing that a team should discuss on the way to a better design.

I just hope you start to develop a feel for when a class ahould really be split up because it
does not "stick together"... Each function/operation refers to a different set of attributes.
There is no sharing of responsibillities within the class, for example.

Notice:  It is hard for me to remove points for something I can't give you an algorithm to do.

. Chapter 17 pages 314-318 -- Cohesion and Coupling
Cohesion and Coupling affect one another in opposite ways (High Cohesion = Low Coupling).  How do you find balance between these two and optimize your application?

See below.

. Explain the difference between coupling and cohesion
Coupling occurs between classes and measures the dependency between
them.

Cohesion is a property of a single class and measures how well
the class has a single purpose, common data, and intertwingled 
operations.

. Chapter 17 pages 317 -- High cohesion vs Low coupling
I think high cohesion could cause high coupling because "the class has moderate responsibilities and need to collaborate with other classes to fulfill tasks."

I thought this when I first studied them.  But in practice you can organize
the communication  between classes and packages
to be through a small well defined interface which
lowers the coupling, while allowing a lot of communication within
a class or package.

. Chapter 17 pages 299-319 -- coupling and cohesion
Should we strive for low coupling and high cohesion in most cases?

YES.  The ideal (impossible) is to have the software divided into
islands of responsibility. Much shared purpose and data inside each
island and no communication between the islands.

. Chapter 17 pages 284-293 -- Low Coupling & High Cohesion
Can you give a brief example how Low Coupling and High Cohesion can go hand to hand or support each other?

. how does high cohesion support low coupling
If every class has high cohesion then most of the connection are inside the class and
so the references to other closes are lower.

. Can a class with high cohesion have a large number of methods?
In theory - yes!  Cohesion is more a matter of sharing all the
attributes between the methods.

. Is Cohesion a subjective measure
Yes.   There are `metrics` that attempt to estimate it.  I don't
trust them.

. Which type of cohesion is best?
The highest you can get.

. Can you give an example of high cohesion.
A class Triangle with three vertexes that calculates area and perimeter, and
other properties of the triangle.

This would still be cohesive if it allowed you to move the triangle.

However, if we added an operation that records sales of pets it would
loose cohesion.

If we design a class figure that tried to handle Triangles and Circles in one
class ... we would create low cohesion.

Hope this helps.

. Can you give and example of high and low cohesion in the Monopoly game program?
I think that by page 360 MGame has lost some cohesion -- and is a temptation
to a novice programmer. As a rule Larman's designs are good enough
to have highly cohesive classes.

. Chapter 20 pages 303 -- Reverse Engineering
Are CASE tools accurate enough to give correct diagrams by reverse engineering the code?

Yes... but ugly and incomplete.  

In other words: they are often badly layed out.  Some tools
populate a data base and you have to extract the classes etc into diagrams -- the tool
also retirevies the connections between the pieces.   You get an explorer window
of packages, clases, interactions, etc... and drag and drop into diagrams.

I am not aware  of any tool that can reconstract the requirements (use cases) from
the code.  I believe their is a fundamental disconnect between what we want
and what we have, between the `ought` and the `is`.


. Chapter 17 pages ppp-ppp -- Grasp vs GoF
How does GRASP compare with the Gang of Four design patterns?

$GRASP is simpler and more general.  $GoF are more code oriented
and tend to be rather sophisticated.  They came first and tend to be
better known.

. Chapter 17 pages 280 -- Gang of Four patterns
How do the Gang of Four patterns fit into the $GRASP Model?

It turns out (later chapter) that most of the $GoF patterns
are applications of Larman's $GRASP principles/patterns.
Even tho' the $GoF published their patterns first.

On of my reasons for selecting this book is that $GRASP
summarizes a lot of best practices from many sources.

. Chapter 17 pages 288-289 What do Figures 17.9 and 17.10 mean
These are informal sequence diagrams showing objects
sending messages.  See 
.See ./10.html
and chapter 15.

However, Craig is including an Actor icon
to show the user, which is illegal.  He also attempts to show
the layers in a hypothetical architecture.  The squiggly
line separates two layers: one the left is the user interface
(technology) layer, and on the right, is the domain layer.

He also has added an informal notes all over the place!
In theory these should be in comment boxes.

As a rule I'd like you to be a little more formal in your
diagrams.  But,  you can document the use of a GRASP pattern
the same way that Craig does.


. Chapter 17 pages 313 -- What is a Facade
A curtain.  A single class that covers up a lot of detail.

. Chapter 17 pages 475-500 -- Modeling Dynamics -- include in use case diagrams
What is the significance of the <<include>> tag in a use-case diagram?

It means that two or more use cases contain a common pattern of interaction.
This is abstracted into an included use case.

.Close Questions and Answers on GRASP
