.Open Questions and Answers on Design into Code
. What is an IDE
An Integrated Development Environment.  Example Eclipse.
For more look under the Menu in KDE, under Development.

. Chapter 20 pages  369 -- BEware of bugs in the above code
"BEWARE OF BUGS IN THE ABOVE CODE."  That is part of the quote from the 
beginning of chapter 20.  Is it true that the first computer bug was an 
actual bug (I heard a moth) flying into the circuitry of an ancient 
mainframe.

Yes, when 
.Key Admiral Grace Hopper 
was a young programmer she did stick a fried
moth into the console log as evidence of a "bug in the machine".

By the way -- the word "debugging" was already in use at the time!

Side track
.Box
.Key Donald Knuth
(the source of the quote) is one of the great computer scientists.
He is famous for the meticulous care he takes to prove and
analyze algorithms.  He also developed a major (and popular) tool
in a very iterative way -- he paid people every time they found a new bug.
He wrote a paper called "The First 700 Hundred Errors in \TeX" about
this experience.  I think that all CSci students owe it to themselves
to learn about him...
.See http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4532247
(news story with link to a 9 minute audio story).
.Close.Box


. Chapter 20 pages  371 -- Mapping designs to code
Do we have to write source code for all the classes showed in the class 
diagrams at the same time?

For this course -- no.  Unless you want to.

In practice, you can't test until you have code for every class that you 
use.
However, the classes can be full of
.Key stubs
-- functions that are incomplete and return fake results.

Normally you grow the code piece by piece -- class by class.  You start work
on a class by coding some unit tests.



. Chapter 20 pages  373 -- What is a DCD
DCD::acronym="Design Class Diagram".
It is a blueprint for some code.

It is a diagram that shows the classes that you have designed, that will
be put in the code.  Each class is coded as a class, each attribute as
a data member or field.  Each operation becomes a member function or
method.  The associations become pointers and objects.

A DCD differs from a Domain Model
because <exercise>.

. Chapter 19 pages 366-368 -- Differences in Parameter, Attribute, Local, and Global Visibility 

OK. A method can only work if it has some data.  Where does it get
that data?   There are four places where the data might be found:
the parameters of the method, attributes of the methods'cs class, the
varaibles declared inside the method, or in some global
(or static) place in the system.

Look in these places and you may find the data.... but if not you
have to decide where to put that data so that the method can get at it.

And sometimes you end up changing the design to make sure that the data is
available via one or more new function calls.

. Chapter 19 pages 363-368 -- Visibility vs inheritance
Is visibility in design be equivalent to inheritance in OO programming?

No, not equivalent.  But inheritance will make "protected" members visible to the classes
that inherit them.  In the context of this chapter.... inherited "protected" variables have
attribute visibility.  The private ones are not visible. 

. Chapter 19 pages  363-398 -- Visibility and design patterns
Does visibility change between different design patterns?

Yes and no.  Yes -- A different pattern leads to a different set of
interactions and so you end up with the data being placed in different
classes, and passed around in different ways.  No -- the reasoning
about what data is being transferred and where it comes from
stays the same.


. Explain Global Visibility
This is something we told you to not do in CS201 and CS202.

Global visibility occurs when there is a single variable/object that
can be used by any part of the software.  It is easy to do this in
C++ and difficult in Java.

It is the most convenient and most easily abused visibility.

Because any method in any class can access and change a global object, it
is easy for bugs to appear that are unexpected.  It is like having
pockets that every body has access to -- no personal space.


. Chapter 14 pages  363-398 -- Visibility of global data assigned to local varaibles
In web applications, I have seen programmers declare global variables(such
as database info) in configuration files only to reassign them to local 
variables in a class(in this example, a database class). Is this 
good/common practice? What is the purpose of this?

It may be common.  I'd like to see examples to see if it is good.
It smells of entangling the User Interface with a Technical Service.  But
the configuration file may actually act as a way of separating the
design decisions.

In some common rapid development environments you describe the web pages
in an extended mark up language that lets you insert data from a database
into the page directly.  This gets the program working fast,
I wonder how maintainable it will be.  And I wonder if it can handle
some of the more complicated computations that appear in some
situations.

. Chapter 18 pages  363-398 -- Design Into Code
Instead of visibility, could a user write pseudo-code and explain basically
the same thing there?

Yes.
Whether you write pseudocode or draw class diagrams you still have to sort
out
where the data comes from and where it can be accessed.

But reasoning is the same whatever expression the final form takes.


. How does visibility affect global variables?
Not much!  
Global variables are just visible to the whole program.
Coupled to everything!  Anything you do, anywhere in the code, can mung a global variable.
This seems good when you first begin programming.... but after a number
(depending on the person) of bad experiences people tend to get rid of them.

For example in my PhD graphics program I had three global variables: X,Y,SCALE that
were available for drawing pictures:
.As_is 	PROCEDURE SQUARE
.As_is 	BEGIN
.As_is 		X:=X+1; DRAW; Y:=Y+1; DRAW; X:=X-1; DRAW; Y:=Y-1; DRAW;
.As_is 	END;
These days we send commands to a graphic Canvas....
.As_is 	graphic.drawLine(x,y,x+1,y);
.As_is 	graphic.drawLine(x+1,y,x+1,y+1);
.As_is 	graphic.drawLine(x+1,y+1,x,y+1);
.As_is 	graphic.drawLine(x,y+1,x,y);
You can see how seductive the global variable form was.... But
.See http://csci.csusb.edu/dick/test.Henrici.html

. Chapter 20 pages  370 -- Cycle of annoyance.
As a novice programmer, I can easily see becoming discouraged by having to
change documentation every time I think of a new method that should be
added to a class, or a new class that should be added to the system.  One
of the important aspects of diagramming/planning is to give you a fuller
understanding of what you will be working on; but constantly updating the
documentation seems to me to be a distraction.  Do you know how frequently
technical writers with programming experience are employed for this exact
purpose?  Or is some poor sod of a programmer usually tasked with doing it?

I completely agree that it is annoying to go back to adjust previous 
analysis
and design artifacts.   Indeed, in practice -- but not in this class --
I think we should only go back when we can see a value to it.   I believe
that well written code can can capture a lot of the meta-data that is
discovered in diagrams.

I don't think technical writers are or should be used for this purpose.
There job is to prepare information for users, managers, salespeople, ...

I remember a poor student, many years ago, in England spending the
entire summer drawing a flow chart of a FORTRAN program.  He was paid
but what a waste.

I remember flowcharting the machine code of a
compiler I was modifying as part of my Ph.D.
work..... until a faculty member asked why I didn't call the company
up and ask them for their flowcharts.  I hadn't thought of doing this!
So I did.... and they said that they hadn't drawn diagram but had written
it in Algol 60, would I like a copy.   I said yes.... and there was all the
information I needed.

Any thoughts?

. Chapter  20 pages  374 : Exceptions
How would exceptions or error handling be involved with the transition from
UML to Code?

There are notations in parts of the UML for showing exceptions.
I don't want to burden you with these in this course.   The official
ones are used in `activity diagrams` (none of the diagrams we've met so 
far)
and involve lightening strokes and little triangular "Delta" symbols.
Follow Craig's notation in class diagrams:
.As_is 		{exception SmokingGnu}

At the user level, alternate scenarios can probably be coded best
using exceptions.

The problem is that Java forces you to handle exceptions.
My advice in this case is: don't clutter the UML design
with exceptions but code them carefully.  We will talk about some exception
handling patterns later... meanwhile check
.See ./patterns.html#Exception Principles
for 4 useful hints.

. Should errors be handled by the object that detects them or by another 
object
If you can handle them locally -- and hide there occurrence from
the rest of the system this is good.  But normally you need to at least
record the errors in a log so that an administrator can spot trends.

. How are exceptions and errors handled handled when you have already 
planned for them
It depends on your plan.  All the book is suggesting is thinking about and
possibly
programming a simple central error handling subsystem early in the project.


. Chapter 20 pages 375-376 -- Order of implementation
While in the test phase, are tests based on the logic of the DCD? Or, should tests be performed at random?

Review Exercise: name the four phases of the UP.

First -- there is no "test phase".  Testing is done in every UP phase, and in every iteration.

We have several types of tests.

Unit tests make sure that a single class's reactions to various calls/messages are correct.
They are based on the DCD plus other known properties of the objects.
Started at the start of each iteration after Inception.

Integration tests can be based on the interaction diagrams -- does this set of objects play
together nicely? Probably in the middle of iterations.

Other tests are based on scenarios in the use cases.  Towards the end  (but with small
programs I do this first).

Then we have client based "acceptance tests".  Probably done at the end of iterations.

Random testing has been used, successfully, by NASA to estimate the mean time to failure of software.
They used operational scenarios weighted by the expected frequency of events in the real world.

. Chapter 20 pages 376 -- Test-Driven or Test-First Development
About how successful are Test-Driven/Test-First Development projects?

Very.
. Chapter 20 pages 376 -- Test_Development TDD vs TFD
What is the difference between Test Driven Development (TDD) and Test First Development (TFD)?

Not much!

. Chapter 21 pages  376-398 -- Test-Driven Development -- TTD
Isn't unit testing apart of test-driven development?  It would be hard to
test an entire program at first.  You would need to break up the testing
into sections.

Unit testing is an important part of TDD.

The classic form is:  write a test for one new feature,
make the program work by adding the feature, write a test for
a new feature, fix the program,..... and so on.  And then
refactor the code.
The tests accumulate
as you complete the system.


. Chapter 20 pages  376 -- TDD order
Is there any particular order when implementing the TDD method? In figure 
20.7 we are given an order that seems a bit all over the place, is there 
logic to it? Or is it just how one feels on what they want to do.

One of the nicest things about TDD is the freedom you get to adjust to
the things you discover as you develop the code.

However if you look, carefully at Fig 20.7 the order is determined
by the arrows -- but backwards.   The arrows indicate a strong dependency.
For example "Sale" knows about a "Payment".  And so we must get
"Payment" up and running before we can start on "Sale".

The jumping around is more apparent than real.   You can probably
do a PERT on it!


. Chapter 20 pages  380-400 -- What is TDD for
So is
TDD just a test or more than that?

Kent Beck wrote an article Test First Development arguing it was a whole 
lot
more than a test:
.Open Beck01
 Kent Beck
 Aim, Fire
 IEEE Software Magazine V18n5(Sep/Oct 2001)pp87-89
.See http://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/52.951502
 =DEMO TESTING first is ANALYSIS DESIGN  SPECIFICATION
 "Never write a line of functional code without a broken test case".
 Ward Cunningham: "Test-first coding is not a testing technique".
 Writing tests helps you understand the problem: analysis.
 Writing tests described the logic of the design.
  Hard to write GUI tests.
 Claims that creatively lazy test-first coding tends to be more cohesive 
and less coupled -- because the interfaces tend to be minimized to saving 
typing: "intense feedback substitutes for the ability to guess right"
 Test cases expose misunderstandings in pair programming.
 Test cases document the all important answer to "What was this idiot 
thinking when he wrote this?".
.Close
.
. Chapter 21 pages  386 -- Test Driven Development  TDD
Is TDD really feasible on a very large scale development environment?

The British Civil Service included specifying tests as the last stage of
design prior.  But this was Big Design Up Front --(BDUF)
So we specified pages and pages of tests -- covering every piece of code
once and every decision -- both ways... A very different process but
demonstrating that designing the tests first is possible.  Indeed you will
find it as part of the departments own IEEE based process.

 Chapter 21.1 pages  386 -- TDD
The book didn't cover any disadvantages of using TDD, could you go over 
some that you mentioned in class? (if you did)

I've yet to discover any disadvantages of TDD. But I don't think I've got 
any
hard data.

. Chapter  21 pages  381 : TDD
Should we be writing test code during, before, or after interaction and 
class
diagrams?

You can do the
unit tests for any class when you know the attributes and operations.
So,
I figure that you can start unit tests while you are still working
on the class diagrams.   Possibly even earlier!

. Chapter 21 pages  387 -- Writing test code
I haven't written "test code" for a program.  Is this written code 
additional to the program code or is it part of the program code?  Which 
add on testers work best in your opinion?

Test code is additional code.

I'm cheap so I tend to write the test code as the 'main' function, rather
than invest in a tool.  In C++ I use 'assert'.

Notice -- user interface code is tested differently to the other layers.
Test code exercises classes on your behalf.  UI code has to be tested
by Users.


. Chapter 21 pages 386-387 -- Test-Driven Development
Who conducts this test-driven test? Is it an independent company that reports back to all stake holders or this refer to local / lab bench testing. 

For tests to drive development they must be done quickly and on site -- I like the
term "lab bench testing" -- it has the right image to it.

You can have two types of tests that can be used to drive coding:  internal
"unit" tests developed by the programmers and external "whitebox" tests 
developed by clients.  Both are good for driving the development of code.
For tests to drive the coding you need to be able to complete the tests 
quickly -- seconds rather than minutes.    In XP the programmers start 
testing the code at the start of the week, and the client tests it at the 
end of the week's work.

In some projects
testing is done by a separate team or even a specialized "Quality Assurance" company.
This does not provide the kind of rapid feedback needed to help the coder.  The aim was
to protect the stakeholders. This is an older
procedure -- there used to be several local companies doing this -- I was involved in providing 
training to them in the late eighties.  I associate it with government projects.   

. Chapter 21 pages 385-389 -- eXtreme Programming
When should one use 
.Key XP
and is it a good development process to use? 

We know that it works very well when you can get the whole team plus a user representative
into a single room.  Projects that need more people, or where you can't get a good 
user working in the team are a lot more iffy.  Similarly if you can't afford to dedicate
a single space to the client+programmer team.

. Chapter 21 pages  385 -- eXtreme Programming -- is XP used often

I have no real data.  XP had a lot of hype, and quite a bit of criticism
in the last 8 years.  I suspect that it is hardly ever done properly --
lots of enterprises will develop their on variations.   XP is a
very tight discipline. A very prescriptive set of practices.  And there
is no evidence that it scales up to distributed and outsourced
processes.

. Chapter 20 pages  376-384 -- Design Code -- XP eXtreme Programming
I can see the whole OO A/D process finally coming to the actual coding of
software (the favorite part of any programmer); my question is on page 376
Larman mentions extreme programming, is this method of unit testing all
production code useful?  What if requirements change in the middle of
coding? Would that make extreme programming less adaptable?

Yes, XP has worked on many projects.

It is also one of the best processes for handling change.
Most if the XP practices are designed to handle requirements that change.
Hence the title of Beck's book "Embrace Change".  Examples:  every week
some change is made to the software and presented to the user.  There
is a user representative on the development team. Every week
the user representative selects what needs to be done in the coming week
from a menu of possible requirements.   (I'd love to do a planning game
exercise but we don't have time). Another XP practice is to have no
documentation except code... so change is handled fast.  Finally code is
continuously refectored so that it is easy to change.
There are more practices that are
designed to provide very fast feedback and self-correction.

For more check out
.See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming
in the Wikipedia.


. Chapter 21 pages 389 -- refactoring
can you explain a situation where refactoring is used

Think of refactoring as doing the laundry.
Testing/modifying code tends to make it dirty, refactoring cleans it up.
.See [Martin09]

Whenever you have got to where the software passes all its tests you should take time to
"refactor" it, repeating the tests after each small change.   There is clear evidence in real
projects that software "rusts" if not cleaned up on a regular basis.

. Chapter 21 pages  390 -- Code Smells
Of the code smells listed in the book what is the worst smell?  In what 
situations might some of these smells be okay?

Duplicated code smells bad to me.  But what smells worse is any code
I can't understand by looking at it.

Sometimes a complicated algorithm just can't be improved.  It is me
that has to change to understand it.


. Chapter 21 pages  389-392 -- Refactoring
What are some methods of improving code smells?  Some codes I(also many 
students) have written really stink!

I agree....

But refactoring does help.   Look it up on the web!
.See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refactoring

Time to hit the books.... After this course is over?


. Chapter 25 pages 390 -- Generalize Relationship
What is the generalize relationship? The book mentions it, but only to state that it's outside the scope of the introduction

We will return to it later.  It is the ---|> relation.   It expresses (in the domain)
the fact that one class of object `is a special kind of` another class.  
Example
	A cat is a special kind of pet.

In a DCD it indicates the use of inheritance/extension. Example
.As_is 		Cat : public Pet { Sound sound(){return "Mew";} };
or
.As_is 		public class Cat extends Pet implements IMouser { ...}


. Chapter 22 pages 396 -- round trip engineering
Can you better explain round trip engineering and how it is used?

Disclaimer: I'm a cynic about this process.

It was almost a slogan invented by Rational.  If you have a tool that converts diagrams to
code and code to diagrams then you can carry out the following process

repeat
.(
	generate the code
	repeat
.(
	test the code
	modify the code
.)
	until all tests pass or you get lost in the code
	regenerate the diagrams
	tidy up the diagrams
.)

. How reliable are the unit testing frameworks in testing code
From what I here from people that use them they are highly reliable -- but
they
rely on people writing good unit tests.  Writing the tests takes skill and
care.
Using the tools is usually reported as fun and addictive.


. What do you do with objects that are created and then never do anything.
Think more about them -- you've probably forgotten some obvious thing that
they
have to be able to do.  For example: helping you print out results.

A true dead-end object that is created and never used is probably 
incorrect.


. Chapter  21 pages  389-393 : Refactoring
Refactoring seems more geared towards XP and agile UP.  Would you even
re-factor in a project where you aren't using XP/ agile UP?  Wouldn't the
purpose of all the design to prevent refactoring?

Yes refactoring is now a vital part of XP.  But it is a useful
tool in most real projects.

Even `fragile` projects that practice `Big Design Up Front` enter a
maintenance phase.  In this the code is changed -- sometimes for decades.
If it isn't refactored then it `rusts` -- becomes badly designed, dangerous
to change, and ultimately buggy.

Notice that in theory we can get the design right on paper.... but in 
practice
most projects have areas where you have to code a solution before
you understand the problem enough to do the design.  You now have
a choice: (1) reverse engineer the diagrams and throw
away your code... and then recode it. OR (2) refactor
the working solution into a well-designed form.

. Chapter  21 pages  389-393 : Refactoring
And, if you do refactor,
would you go back and fix/change all the diagrams that would be effected by
the refactoring?

It depends on the degree of ceremony in the process.  But to be rational
the real question is to redraw when there is an obvious value to do so
or it is cheap to do (by reverse engineering).
. Chapter  All pages  All : Real World
In the real world, how much time would have passed in our project already?

I guess about two weeks.  I'm tempted to be nasty and make
joke about only seeing about 2 or 3 days work so far:-)

Warning:  the next piece of assigned work (due next week) involves 
reworking and
handing in a copy of everything... so I can see where your
next iteration is starting from.

. Chapter  23 pages  402 : The Phases
If a project is given 6 months to finish, how many weeks should be given to
the second iteration.  Should this iteration be more important then the 
first.

The quick answer is that you don't really know until you've finished
the first iteration.  In other words,  the plan you make at the start
of the project is based on experience and guess work and
`must be revised` as you learn more about the project and
your team.

This doesn't mean that you can't work out a set of iterations.
Perhaps you should.   The problem is that you are likely to
be wrong.   This may be why `PERT` is the
`Planning, estimation, and REEVALUATION Technique`.

Here is a simple technique:  the team takes every feature and guesses
how many `days` it will take to complete: 
analysis+design+code+integrate+test.
Choose a collection of valuable and risky features that add up to
say 3 weeks (15 days)work (say) and call this the first iteration.  Now do
it.
How long did it take?  Say it was 20 days!  Now treat all your other 
estimates
as needing 20/15 times what you planned.  Start on another 15 day iteration
and discover it take only 10 days ... faster take the original estimates
and multiply them by 10/15 to get the next set of features.... MEANWHILE
involve a user and other stakeholders in rethinking the features
that want.  There is nothing like running software to change
your mind about what you really want!

The other way to be sure is to allocate 3 weeks per iteration
(a guess!) and then decide, at the start of each one what you expect
to get done.  Look up `Scrum` on the WWW!

Note:  There is no plan that is not project and team dependent.

.Close Questions on Visibility and moving from UML to Code
