Political Science Disucssion Questions

1.)	Is the resurgence of partisanship in Congress a healthy or an unhealthy 
	development?  Does it clarify national issues and generate sharper national debates?  Or 
	does it promote petty arguing between representatives in Congress that alienates 
	citizens? Don’t forget to bring in the articles as part of your discussion.

2.)      Did Congress overreach when it impeached President Clinton? Do 
        you agree with the impeachment of President Clinton?  Why or 
        Why not? 


I would say that the resurgence of partisanship in Congress is definitely an unhealthy thing.  When we elect someone to congress, the whole point is that the person we elect votes along the lines of what is best for the people in their area.  If the people we elect votes along the lines of what their respective party believes in, and not what is best for the people, then I feel that’s a problem.  I think that if everyone votes for what they feel the people want then maybe things would change in this country.  I think it will generate problems when it comes to national debate.  If there was a vote in congress and everyone votes along the side of their party, then the party with the most representation will always win.  That’s why in today’s time, it is so important for a party to have majority control over congress.  There won’t be that much a debate, majority will always rule unlike if everyone votes for what’s best.  “You can see partnership is very high –now members vote along party lines in four out of every five votes—and has been steadily increasing.”  At this rate, members will vote along party lines every time without fail.  What would be the point of me voting if all that will happen is they will vote along party lines?  I would consider it a waste of my time.  It will always alienate the citizens because it isn’t about us; it’s about our representative doing what their party wants.  I’m not sure how they feel they will get re-elected if they don’t do what the people who vote for them wanted.

I guess I have mixed opinions on the impeachment of President Clinton.  The fact that he lied about what happened is what makes it bad.  I do believe he deserved to be impeached for lying about it.  But looking at what he lied about, sexual relations with an intern, I don’t feel he should be impeached for that.  Yes he was married and he shouldn’t have done that, but that sort of personal mistake shouldn’t be the defining moment of his career.  If he were upfront about it in the beginning, I don’t feel anything should have happened to him, but as soon as he lied about it, he deserves what happened.  It does suck that the incident will be such a bad record on his career.  He did so many good things, that shouldn’t be overshadowed by this one bad decision that had nothing to do with the government.  


